#summary Version Information public routines.
<wiki:comment>
$Rev$
$Date$
</wiki:comment>

= Version Information Public Routines=

*Project:* [VersionInformationComponent Version Information Component].

*Unit:* _PJVersionInfo_.

The following public routines are defined in _PJVersionInfo_:

  * [#VerNumToStr VerNumToStr]
  * [#CompareVerNums CompareVerNums]

These functions are provided mainly for users of Delphi 2005 and earlier who don't have the extended functionality of _[TPJVersionNumber TPJVersionNumber]_. The functions seek to replicate that functionality.

== !VerNumToStr ==

{{{
function VerNumToStr(const Ver: TPJVersionNumber): string;
}}}

Converts a _[TPJVersionNumber TPJVersionNumber]_ record into a dotted quad string. If the following code is executed the string variable _S_ will have the value '2.5.8.3'.

{{{
var
  S: string;
  VN: TPJVersionNumber;
begin
  VN.V1 := 2;
  VN.V2 := 5;
  VN.V3 := 8;
  VN.V4 := 3;
  S := VerNumToStr(VN);
  // ...
end;
}}}

*Note:* Users of Delphi 2006 and later can simply assign a _[TPJVersionNumber TPJVersionNumber]_ record to a string to get exactly the same effect. There is never any need to call _!VerNumToStr_.

== !CompareVerNums ==

{{{
function CompareVerNums(const Ver1, Ver2: TPJVersionNumber): Integer;
}}}

Compares two _[TPJVersionNumber TPJVersionNumber]_ records. Return values are:

  * 0 if _Ver1_ and _Ver2_ are the same
  * <0 if _Ver1_ is less than _Ver2_
  * >0 if _Ver1_ is greater than _Ver2_

*Note:* Users of Delphi 2006 should rarely, if ever, need to use this function. Two version number records can be directly compared using the normal `=`, `<>`, `<`, `<=`, `>` and `>=` operators.
