#summary Structure of Delphi Library Source Repository
<wiki:comment>
$Rev$
$Date$
</wiki:comment>

= Source Code Repository Structure =

The [http://subversion.tigris.org/ Subversion] repository for the !DelphiDabbler Component and Unit Library is structured as follows:

<pre>
branches                    unused at present
tags                        all stable releases
  lib                       unused at present: reserved for releases of whole library
  projects                  stable releases of each sub-project
    proj-id                 stable releases of a sub-project: one dir per project
      release-x.x           contains a release: one dir per release
      ...
    ...                     
trunk                       main development tree
  lib                       development tree for whole library and common code
    !DevTools                development tools common to whole library
  projects                  development tree for sub-projects
    proj-id                 development tree of a sub-project: one dir per project
    ...
wiki                        contains library wiki</pre>                

== "branches" tree ==

The `branches` tree is currently unused.

== "tags" tree ==

The `tags` tree contains stable releases of each of the library's constituent projects and the complete library.

The project releases are contained in the `projects` sub-directory, which in turn has a further sub-directory for each project, named for the project's id. Within that directory is a set of `release-x.x` directories, one for each stable release contained within the repository.

The `lib` directory is reserved for releases of the complete library. Each release will have its own sub-directory. The directory is unused at present.

== "trunk" tree ==

The `trunk` tree contains current development code. It is not guaranteed to be stable, but contains the latest updates. 

Updates to individual projects are stored in the `projects` sub tree, where there is one sub-directory for each project, named for the project id.

The `lib` subtree is reserved for development code that applies to the whole library. This directory is unused at present.

== "wiki" tree ==

This tree contains the documents that make up the library's Wiki on Google Code.

-----

*Links:*

  * Back to [Welcome Wiki Home Page]