#summary Description of the TPJBrowseDialog.OnSelChange event.
<wiki:comment>
$Rev$
$Date$
</wiki:comment>

= !OnSelChange event =

*Project:* [ShellFoldersUnit Shell Folders Unit].

*Unit:* _PJShellFolders_. 

*Class:* _[TPJBrowseDialog TPJBrowseDialog]_

{{{
type
  TPJBrowseSelChangeEvent = procedure(Sender: TObject; 
    FolderName, DisplayName: AnsiString; var StatusText: AnsiString;
    var OKEnabled: Boolean) of object;

property OnSelChange: TPJBrowseSelChangeEvent;
}}}

== Description ==

_!OnSelChange_ is triggered whenever the selection in the dialog box changes. This can occur before the dialog is displayed and before the _[TPJBrowseDialogOnIntialise OnIntialise]_ event fires.  Write a handler to perform any required processing when the selected folder changes and to update the status text and state of the dialog's _OK_ button. The _!OnSelChange_ event is immediately followed by the _[TPJBrowseDialogOnSelChangeEx OnSelChangeEx]_ event. It is recommended that only one of these events is handled.

The event handler's parameters are as follows:

  * _Sender_ contains a reference to the _[TPJBrowseDialog TPJBrowseDialog]_ component that triggered the event.
  * _!FolderName_ is the full path name name of newly selected folder (or the empty string if the folder is virtual).
  * _!DisplayName_ is the text used to display the newly selected folder in the dialog's tree view. 
  * _!StatusText_ will always be the empty string. Set this value to whatever text should be displayed in the dialog's status area. Setting _!StatusText_ will only have an effect if the _[TPJBrowseDialogOptions Options]_ property includes `boStatusText` and does not include `boNewDlgStyle`. 
  * _OKEnabled_ will be True if the dialog's _OK_ button is currently enabled and False if it should be disabled. Setting _OKEnabled_ to a different value will change the state of the _OK_ button accordingly. The default state of the _OK_ button depends on whether `boDirsOnly` is included in the _[TPJBrowseDialogOptions Options]_ property. If `boDirsOnly` is included in _[TPJBrowseDialogOptions Options]_ then the _OK_ button will be enabled when a physical folder is selected and disabled when a virtual folder is selected. 

When _!OnSelChange_ is triggered the dialog's window handle is available via the _[TPJBrowseDialogHandle Handle]_ property.
