#summary TPJCustomWdwState class description
<wiki:comment>
$Rev$
$Date$
</wiki:comment>

= TPJCustomWdwState =

*Project:* [WindowStateComponents Window State Components].

*Unit:* _PJWdwState_.

This is the abstract case class for the _[TPJWdwState TPJWdwState]_, _[TPJRegWdwState TPJRegWdwState]_ and _[TPJUserWdwState TPJUserWdwState]_ components. It provides the common functionality and properties of the derived components. _TPJWdwState_, _TPJRegWdwState_ and _TPJUserWdwState_ simply add the methods and / or events used to store and read window state information along with any properties and events relevant to the desired storage.

_TPJCustomWdwState_ can be used as a base class for further window state components that use other forms of storage. To derive a new component you must override the protected abstract methods _[TPJCustomWdwStateReadWdwState ReadWdwState]_ and _[TPJCustomWdwStateSaveWdwState SaveWdwState]_ to read and save window size, position and state information via the desired storage medium.

Instances of _TPJCustomWdwState_ must not be constructed directly. 

_TPJCustomWdwState_ exposes the following methods, properties and events in addition to those inherited from _TComponent_.

== Methods ==

|| *Method* || *Description* ||
|| _[TPJCustomWdwStateCreate Create]_ || Class constructor that permits only one instance of the component to be placed on a form. ||
|| _[TPJCustomWdwStateCreateStandAlone CreateStandAlone]_ || Class constructor for use when creating components at run time. ||
|| _[TPJCustomWdwStateReadWdwState ReadWdwState]_ || Protected abstract method called to read a window's size, position and state from storage. Derived classes must override. ||
|| _[TPJCustomWdwStateRestore Restore]_ || Restores the size, position and state of a window. ||
|| _[TPJCustomWdwStateSave Save]_ || Saves the size, position and state of the window. ||
|| _[TPJCustomWdwStateSaveWdwState SaveWdwState]_ || Protected abstract method called to write a window's size, position and state to storage. Derived classes must override. ||

== Properties ==

|| *Property* || *Description* ||
|| _[TPJCustomWdwStateAutoSaveRestore AutoSaveRestore]_ || Determines whether the window's size, position and state is automatically restored on creation and stored on destruction. ||
|| _[TPJCustomWdwStateIgnoreState IgnoreState]_ || Determines whether the window's saved state (maximised, normal or minimised) is applied on restoration. This property is deprecated - use the _[TPJCustomWdwStateOptions Options]_ property instead. ||
|| _[TPJCustomWdwStateMinimizeDelay MinimizeDelay]_ || Sets the delay between displaying a normalised form on screen and minimising it if required. ||
|| _[TPJCustomWdwStateOptions Options]_ || Determines how the component interprets the window display data read from storage. ||

== Events ==

|| *Event* || *Description* ||
|| _[TPJCustomWdwStateOnReadWdwState OnReadWdwState]_ || Protected event that allows user to change the window data read from storage before the window is displayed. ||
