#summary TPJCBViewer class description.
<wiki:comment>
$Rev$
$Date$
</wiki:comment>

= TPJCBViewer =

*Project:* [ClipboardViewerComponent Clipboard Viewer Component].

*Unit:* _PJCBView_.

_TPJCBViewer_ notifies the user of changes to the Windows clipboard. It hooks itself into the Windows clipboard viewer chain and receives notifications from Windows whenever the contents of the clipboard change. When a change is detected the _[TPJCBViewerOnClipboardChanged OnClipboardChanged]_ event is triggered. Users handle this event.

The component also provides an _[TPJCBViewerEnabled  Enabled]_ property which, when `False`, prevents _[TPJCBViewerOnClipboardChanged OnClipboardChanged]_ events from being triggered. It also has a _[TPJCBViewerTriggerOnCreation TriggerOnCreation]_ property which, when `True`, causes the _[TPJCBViewerOnClipboardChanged OnClipboardChanged]_ event to be triggered immediately after the control has been created as well as when the clipboard contents change.

== Methods ==

_TPJCBViewer_ defines no new methods.

== Properties ==

|| *Property* || *Description* ||
|| _[TPJCBViewerEnabled Enabled]_ || Enables and disables the component. ||
|| _Name_ || Inherited from _TComponent_. See Delphi help for details. ||
|| _Tag_ || Inherited from _TComponent_. See Delphi help for details. ||
|| _[TPJCBViewerTriggerOnCreation TriggerOnCreation]_ || Causes a clipboard change event to be triggered when the component is created. ||

== Events ==

|| *Event* || *Description* ||
|| _[TPJCBViewerOnClipboardChanged OnClipboardChanged]_ || Event triggered when the clipboard contents change. ||
