#summary TPJHotLabel class description
<wiki:comment>
$Rev$
$Date$
</wiki:comment>

= TPJHotLabel =

*Project:* [HotLabelComponent Hot Label Component].

*Unit:* _PJHotLabel_.

This component provides a label that can access a user-defined URL when clicked. The URL is displayed in the default browser or email client.

In addition to the properties of _TLabel_, from which this component descends, additional properties for working with URLs are provided. The effect of some of _TLabel_'s properties is modified in _TPJHotLabel_.

=== URLs and the Caption ===

The _[TPJHotLabelURL URL]_ property is used for storing the URL to be accessed and the _[TPJHotLabelCaption Caption]_ property can either store descriptive text or can reflect the URL, depending on the value of the _[TPJHotLabelCaptionIsURL CaptionIsURL]_ property. When the _[TPJHotLabelValidateURL ValidateURL]_ property is `True` URLs are automatically validated, raising an exception if invalid.

=== Fonts and highlighting ===

The label's _[TPJHotLabelFont Font]_ property defaults to a font based on the parent font at the time the component is dropped on the form, but coloured navy blue. It should be noted that the _[TPJHotLabelFont Font]_ property will not automatically reflect changes in the parent controls's font since _[TPJHotLabelParentFont ParentFont]_ defaults to `False`.

The label can be highlighted when the mouse passes over it. It does this only if the _[TPJHotLabelHighlightURL HighlightURL]_ property is `True`, in which case the _[TPJHotLabelHighlightFont HighlightFont]_ property is used when the mouse is over the label. The value of _[TPJHotLabelHighlightFont HighlightFont]_ is, by default, based on the default font used by the _[TPJHotLabelFont Font]_ property, but with a different colour.

From v2.2 the label can change its appearance to indicate its link has been visited. It does this when its _[TPJHotLabelVisited Visited]_ property is `True`, in which case the _[TPJHotLabelVisitedFont VisitedFont]_ property is used to set the label's font when in its un-highlighted state. _[TPJHotLabelVisited Visited]_ is a writeable property so the user can set its value in code or in the object inspector. Further, if the _[TPJHotLabelTrackVists TrackVisits]_ property is `True` the label will automatically set _[TPJHotLabelVisited Visited]_to `True` (and change its appearance) when the label is clicked and the URL is processed without error. The value of _[TPJHotLabelVisitedFont VisitedFont]_ is, by default, based on the default font used by the _[TPJHotLabelFont Font]_ property, but with a different colour.

=== The cursor ===

The _[TPJHotLabelCursor Cursor]_ property defaults to `crHandPoint` rather than `crDefault` so that the expected "pointing hand" is displayed over a link.

=== Customising hints ===

Useful, customisable, pop-up hints can be displayed when the mouse cursor hovers over the label. You can either display text from the _[TPJHotLabelHint Hint]_ property as normal, display the _[TPJHotLabelURL URL]_ property value (useful when the URL is not displayed in the label) or customise the hint each time it is displayed. The _[TPJHotLabelHintStyle HintStyle]_ property is used to specify the source of the hint text. Custom hints are set up by handling the _[TPJHotLabelOnCustomHint OnCustomHint]_ event.

== Methods ==

_TPJHotLabel_ defines no new methods over and above those inherited from _TLabel_.

== Properties ==

|| *Property* || *Description* ||
|| _[TPJHotLabelCaption Caption]_ || Specifies a text string that that may be displayed in the label. How _[TPJHotLabelCaption Caption]_ is used depends on the _[TPJHotLabelCaptionIsURL CaptionIsURL]_ property. ||
|| _[TPJHotLabelCaptionIsURL CaptionIsURL]_ || Determine whether the text of the label's _[TPJHotLabelURL URL]_ property is assigned to the _[TPJHotLabelCaption Caption]_ property or whether _[TPJHotLabelCaption Caption]_ can be used to display descriptive text. ||
|| _[TPJHotLabelCursor Cursor]_ || Specifies the image used to represent the mouse pointer when it passes into the region covered by the control. ||
|| _[TPJHotLabelFont Font]_ || Specifies the label's font when in its normal state, i.e. when it is neither highlighted or in its visited state. ||
|| _[TPJHotLabelHighlightFont HighlightFont]_ || Specifies the label's font when in its highlighted state. ||
|| _[TPJHotLabelHighlightURL HighlightURL]_ || Determines whether the label's text is highlighted when the mouse passes over the control. ||
|| _[TPJHotLabelHint Hint]_ || Contains the text string that can appear when the user moves the mouse over the control. How _[TPJHotLabelHint Hint]_ is used depends on the _[TPJHotLabelHintStyle HintStyle]_ property. ||
|| _[TPJHotLabelHintStyle HintStyle]_ || Determines the source of the text displayed in the component's hint. ||
|| _[TPJHotLabelParentFont ParentFont]_ || Determines where the control looks for its font information. ||
|| _[TPJHotLabelTrackVisits TrackVisits]_^v2.2^ || Determines whether or not the label automatically displays in its visible state when the user clicks the link. ||
|| _[TPJHotLabelURL URL]_ || Stores the URL that is to be accessed when the label is clicked. ||
|| _[TPJHotLabelVisited Visited]_^v2.2^ || Determines whether or not the label is in its visited state. ||
|| _[TPJHotLabelVisitedFont VisitedFont]_^v2.2^ || Specifies the label's font when in its visited state and not highlighted. ||
|| _[TPJHotLabelValidateURL ValidateURL]_ || Determines whether the URL stored in the component is validated or not. ||

== Events ==

|| *Event* || *Description* ||
|| _[TPJHotLabelOnCustomHint OnCustomHint]_ || An event that enables the user to specify a custom hint to be displayed by the component. ||