#summary Description of the TPJPipe.Create constructors
<wiki:comment>
$Rev$
$Date$
</wiki:comment>

= Create constructors =

*Project:* [ConsoleAppClasses  Console Application Runner Classes].

*Unit:* _PJPipe_.

*Class:* _[TPJPipe TPJPipe]_.

*Introduced:* v1.0

{{{
constructor Create(const Size: LongWord; const Inheritable: Boolean = True);
  overload;
constructor Create(const Inheritable: Boolean = True);
  overload;
constructor Create(const Size: LongWord; const Security: TSecurityAttributes);
  overload;
constructor Create(const Security: TSecurityAttributes);
  overload;
}}}

== Description ==

There are four overloaded constructors, each of which creates a pipe with certain characteristics depending on the parameters.

 * When a _Size_ parameter is present the pipe is created with the specified size in bytes. If _Size_ is 0 or is not provided then the Windows default pipe size is used.

 * If the _Inheritable_ parameter is present it specifies whether _[TPJPipeReadHandle ReadHandle]_ and _[TPJPipeWriteHandle WriteHandle]_ are to be inheritable. Calling _Create_ with a single _Size_ parameter, or with no parameters, is the same as specifying _Inherited_ as `True`.

 * _Security_ parameters, where provided, specify the required security for the pipe. If _[TPJPipeReadHandle ReadHandle]_ and _[TPJPipeWriteHandle WriteHandle]_ are to be inheritable the _TSecurityAttributes.bInheritHandle_ field must be set to `True`.

All versions of the constructor raise _EInOutError_ exceptions if the pipe can't be created. The exception message includes the reason returned from the operating system.
