#summary TPJRegWdwState class description
<wiki:comment>
$Rev$
$Date$
</wiki:comment>

= TPJRegWdwState =

*Project:* [WindowStateComponents Window State Components].

*Unit:* _PJWdwState_.

This non-visual component enables the size, position and state of the form on which it is placed to be saved to and read from the registry.

The _[TPJRegWdwStateSave Save]_ method saves the window information to the registry and the _[TPJRegWdwStateRestore Restore]_ method reads information in and sets the owning form window's size, position and state.

The component's _[TPJCustomWdwStateAutoSaveRestore AutoSaveRestore]_ property governs whether window sizes, positions and states are automatically restored on opening and saved on closing or whether the user must explicitly call the _Save_ and _Restore_ methods. 

The _[TPJCustomWdwStateOptions Options]_ property and the _[TPJCustomWdwStateOnReadWdwState OnReadWdwState]_ event can be used to customise how the stored data is interpreted and whether the window's saved state or size should be used or ignored.

Application defined data can be read from and written to the registry by handling the _[TPJRegWdwStateOnGettingRegData OnGettingRegData]_ and _[TPJRegWdwStateOnPuttingRegData OnPuttingRegData]_ events that are triggered when the component reads and writes its data.

The root and sub key to be used in the registry are specified using the _[TPJRegWdwStateRootkey Rootkey]_ and _[TPJRegWdwStateSubkey Subkey]_ properties respectively. Alternatively the _[TPJRegWdwStateOnGetRegData OnGetRegData]_ event can be handled and used to set the root key and sub key to use.

It is only possible to have one instance of a _TPJRegWdwState_ component on any one form. Neither can a _TPJRegWdwState_ component be dropped onto a form that already contains either a _[TPJWdwState TPJWdwState]_ or a _[TPJUserWdwState TPJUserWdwState]_ component.

_TPJRegWdwState_ exposes the following methods, properties and events, some of which are inherited unchanged from _[TPJCustomWdwState TPJCustomWdwState]_.

== Methods ==

|| *Method* || *Description* ||
|| _[TPJRegWdwStateCreate Create]_ || Class constructor that permits only one instance of the component to be placed on a form. ||
|| _[TPJCustomWdwStateCreateStandAlone CreateStandAlone]_ || Class constructor for use when creating components at run time. ||
|| _[TPJRegWdwStateReadWdwState ReadWdwState]_ || Overridden method that reads a window's size, position and state from the registry. ||
|| _[TPJRegWdwStateRestore Restore]_ || Restores the size, position and state of a window from the registry. ||
|| _[TPJRegWdwStateSave Save]_ || Saves the size, position and state of the window to the registry. ||
|| _[TPJRegWdwStateSaveWdwState SaveWdwState]_ || Overridden method that writes a window's size, position and state to the registry. ||

== Properties ==

|| *Property* || *Description* ||
|| _[TPJCustomWdwStateAutoSaveRestore AutoSaveRestore]_ || Determines whether the window's size, position and state is automatically restored on creation and stored on destruction. ||
|| _[TPJCustomWdwStateIgnoreState IgnoreState]_ || Determines whether the window's saved state (maximised, normal or minimised) is applied on restoration. This property is deprecated - use the _[TPJCustomWdwStateOptions Options]_ property instead. ||
|| _[TPJCustomWdwStateMinimizeDelay MinimizeDelay]_ || Sets the delay between displaying a normalised form on screen and minimising it if required. ||
|| _[TPJCustomWdwStateOptions Options]_ || Determines how the component interprets the window display data read from storage. ||
|| _[TPJRegWdwStateRootKey RootKey]_ || Determines the registry root key under which the window's size, position and state information is stored. ||
|| _[TPJRegWdwStateSubKey SubKey]_ || Determines the registry sub key under which the window's size, position and state information is stored. ||

== Events ==

|| *Event* || *Description* ||
|| _[TPJRegWdwStateOnGetRegData OnGetRegData]_ || Event that allows user to change the registry key where window information is stored. ||
|| _[TPJRegWdwStateOnGettingRegData OnGettingRegData]_ || Event that allows user to read additional registry data when the component reads window state information. ||
|| _[TPJRegWdwStateOnPuttingRegData OnPuttingRegData]_ || Event that allows user to write additional registry data when the component writes window state information. ||
|| _[TPJCustomWdwStateOnReadWdwState OnReadWdwState]_ || Event that allows user to change the window data read from storage before the window is displayed. _TPJRegWdwState_ publishes this inherited protected event. ||

