#summary TPJResourceFileEnumerator class description
<wiki:comment>
$Rev$
$Date$
</wiki:comment>

= TPJResourceFileEnumerator =

*Project:* [ResFileUnit Resource File Unit]

*Unit:* _PJResFile_.

*Introduced:* v1.1

This class implements an enumerator for _[TPJResourceFile]_ objects. It enumerates all the resources entries of the associated _[TPJResourceFile]_ instance.

The main purpose of this class is to be used in conjunction with _[TPJResourceFile]_'s _[TPJResourceFileGetEnumerator GetEnumerator]_ method to enable _[TPJResourceFile]_ instances to be enumerated in a *for..in* statement. In this case the class is instantiated and used behind the scenes by the compiler.

Therefore in compilers that support the *for..in* statement (i.e. Delphi 2005 and later) there is rarely a need to use this class directly.

Users of earlier compilers can use the class directly from code. If this is done then the class must be instantiated via a call to _[TPJResourceFile].[TPJResourceFileGetEnumerator GetEnumerator]_ - the constructor must not be called directly. See the _[TPJResourceFile].[TPJResourceFileGetEnumerator GetEnumerator]_ documentation for an example of how to use _TPJResourceFileEnumerator_.

== Methods ==

|| *Method* || *Description* ||
|| _Create_ || Constructor. This method should not be called directly. It is called internally by _[TPJResourceFile].[TPJResourceFileGetEnumerator GetEnumerator]_ to create a new enumerator instance. ||
|| _!MoveNext_ || Moves the enumerator to the next item if one exists. Returns True if such an item exists or False if the enumeration has ended. In a new enumeration _!MoveNext_ must be called to move to the first item. ||
|| _!GetCurrent_ || Returns the current item in the enumeration. It is an error to call this method before _!MoveNext_ has been called or if _!MoveNext_ returns False. ||

== Property ==

|| *Property* || *Description* ||
|| _Current_ || Read only. Returns the current item in the enumeration. It is an error to read this property before _!MoveNext_ has been called or if _!MoveNext_ returns False. ||