#summary Description of the TPJRegWdwState.RootKey property.
<wiki:comment>
$Rev$
$Date$
</wiki:comment>

= !RootKey property =

*Project:* [WindowStateComponents Window State Components].

*Unit:* _PJWdwState_. 

*Class:* _[TPJRegWdwState TPJRegWdwState]_

{{{
property RootKey: HKEY;
}}}

== Description ==

This property allows the user to specify the registry root key under which the window size, position and state information is recorded. The information is saved in a subkey of this root key determined by the _[TPJRegWdwStateSubKey SubKey]_ property. If _!RootKey_ is set to an invalid _HKEY_ value an exception is raised. Valid values are:

{{{
HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT     = $80000000;
HKEY_CURRENT_USER     = $80000001;
HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE    = $80000002;
HKEY_USERS            = $80000003;
HKEY_PERFORMANCE_DATA = $80000004;
HKEY_CURRENT_CONFIG   = $80000005;
HKEY_DYN_DATA         = $80000006;
}}}

These values are defined in the Windows unit.

The property defaults to `HKEY_CURRENT_USER`.

*Note:* The registry root key can also be specified by handling _[TPJRegWdwStateOnGetRegData OnGetRegData]_ or _[TPJRegWdwStateOnGetRegDataEx OnGetRegDataEx]_*^v5.6^* events. If this is done then the value of _!RootKey_ is ignored.

===Alternative Property===

The _[TPJRegWdwStateRootKeyEx RootKeyEx]_*^v5.6^* property provides an alternative way of setting the registry root key. Instead of taking an _HKEY_ value it takes a value from the _[TPJRegRootKey]_ enumeration, making it impossible to specify an invalid value.

_[TPJRegWdwStateRootKeyEx RootKeyEx]_*^v5.6^* also makes it easier and safer to set values in Delphi's Object Inspector since the required value is selected from a list.

Setting _!RootKey_ changes the value of _[TPJRegWdwStateRootKeyEx RootKeyEx]_*^v5.6^* and vice versa.