#summary TPJSpecialFolderInfo class description
<wiki:comment>
$Rev$
$Date$
</wiki:comment>

= TPJSpecialFolderInfo =

*Project:* [ShellFoldersUnit Shell Folders Unit].

*Unit:* _PJShellFolders_.

_TPJSpecialFolderInfo_ is a non-visual component that provides information about a Windows special folders.

To get information about a special folder set the _[TPJSpecialFolderInfoFolderID FolderID]_ property to the required special folder id. The run time only properties of the component can then be used to read off information about the folder. Test _[TPJSpecialFolderInfoIsSupported IsSupported]_ to check if the folder is supported on the current platform. If the folder is not supported then both _[TPJSpecialFolderInfoPath Path]_ and _[TPJSpecialFolderInfoDisplayName DisplayName]_ are empty. If IsVirtual is true then the folder is virtual and the Path property will be empty. If _[TPJSpecialFolderInfoIsVirtual IsVirtual]_ is false then the folder exists in the file system and the folder's path is given by the _[TPJSpecialFolderInfoPath Path]_ property. _[TPJSpecialFolderInfoDisplayName DisplayName]_ gives the name used for the folder - for non-virtual folders this often has the same value as _[TPJSpecialFolderInfoPath Path]_.

== Supporting functions ==

Valid values for _[TPJSpecialFolderInfoFormatID FormatID]_ can be obtained using the _[TPJSpecialFolderEnum TPJSpecialFolderEnum]_ class. Supplying invalid values to _[TPJSpecialFolderInfoFormatID FormatID]_ will cause an exception to be raised. Use the _[PJShellFoldersFunctions#IsValidSpecialFolderID IsValidSpecialFolderID]_ function to check validity. _[PJShellFoldersFunctions#SpecialFolderIdToStr SpecialFolderIdToStr]_ returns the identifier of a valid folder ID.

== Methods ==

_TPJSpecialFolderInfo_ defines no new methods.

== Properties ==

|| *Property* || *Description* ||
|| _[TPJSpecialFolderInfoDisplayName DisplayName]_ || This property gives the name used to display the folder in Explorer. ||
|| _[TPJSpecialFolderInfoFolderID FolderID]_ || Use this property to provide the folder ID of the special folder. ||
|| _[TPJSpecialFolderInfoIsSupported IsSupported]_ || Use this property to determine if the current special folder is supported by the operating system. ||
|| _[TPJSpecialFolderInfoIsVirtual IsVirtual]_ || Use this property to determine if the current special folder is virtual. ||
|| _[TPJSpecialFolderInfoPath Path]_ || This property specifies the location of the folder in the file system, if any. ||

== Events ==

_TPJSpecialFolderInfo_ defines no new events.
