#summary TPJSpecialFolderEnum class description
<wiki:comment>
$Rev$
$Date$
</wiki:comment>

= TPJSpecialFolderEnum =

*Project:* [ShellFoldersUnit Shell Folders Unit].

*Unit:* _PJShellFolders_.

Windows defines integer identifiers to represent the shell's special folders. _TPJSpecialFolderEnum_ is a class that enumerates the values of all the special folder identifiers.

The key method is the _[TPJSpecialFolderEnumNext Next]_ method which returns a sequence of identifiers each time it called. The _[TPJSpecialFolderEnumInit Init]_ methods re-intialises the enumeration and the _[TPJSpecialFolderEnumAtEnd AtEnd]_ methods returns true when all the identifiers have been returned. The number of identifiers in the enumeration are given by the _[TPJSpecialFolderEnumCount Count]_ method.

_TPJSpecialFolderEnum_ implements the _[IPJSpecialFolderEnum IPJSpecialFolderEnum]_ interface.

An [PJShellFoldersExample example] of using _TPJSpecialFolderEnum_ is provided.

== Methods ==

|| *Method* || *Description* ||
|| _[TPJSpecialFolderEnumAtEnd AtEnd]_ || Tests whether the end of the enumeration has been reached. ||
|| _[TPJSpecialFolderEnumCount Count]_ || Returns the number of special folder identifiers in the enumeration. ||
|| _[TPJSpecialFolderEnumCreate Create]_ || Constructs and intialises a _TPJSpecialFolderEnum_ object. ||
|| _[TPJSpecialFolderEnumInit Init]_ || Reinitialises the enumeration. ||
|| _[TPJSpecialFolderEnumNext Next]_ || Returns the next identifier in the enumeration. ||

== Properties ==

_TPJSpecialFolderEnum_ defines no properties.

== Events ==

|| *Event* || *Description* ||

_TPJSpecialFolderEnum_ defines no events.
