#summary Description of the TPJVersionInfo.FileSubType property.
<wiki:comment>
$Rev$
$Date$
</wiki:comment>

= !FileSubType property =

*Project:* [VersionInformationComponent Version Information Component].

*Unit:* _PJVersionInfo_. 

*Class:* _[TPJVersionInfo TPJVersionInfo]_

{{{
property FileSubType: DWORD;
}}}

== Description ==

For some file types this run time property provides additional information about the type of file. The information is as specified in the fixed file information part of the _VERSIONINFO_ resource statement.

The value of this property is also provided by the the _dwFileSubType_ member of the _VS_FIXEDFILEINFO_ structure that is accessed using the _[TPJVersionInfoFixedFileInfo FixedFileInfo]_ property.

The value of _!FileSubType_ depends on the file type identified by the _[TPJVersionInfoFileType FileType]_ property, as follows:

=== Font files ===

When _!FileType_ has value `VFT_FONT` (a font file) then valid values of _!FileSubType_ are:

|| *Flag* || *Description* ||
|| `VFT2_UNKNOWN` || Font type is unknown. ||
|| `VFT2_FONT_RASTER` || A raster font. ||
|| `VFT2_FONT_VECTOR` || A vector font. ||
|| `VFT2_FONT_TRUETYPE` || A !TrueType font. ||

=== Device Drivers ===

When _!FileType_ has value `VFT_DRV` (a device driver) then _!FileSubType_ can take one of the following values:

|| *Flag* || *Description* ||
|| `VFT2_UNKNOWN` || Driver type is unknown. ||
|| `VFT2_DRV_PRINTER` || Printer driver. ||
|| `VFT2_DRV_KEYBOARD` || Keyboard driver. ||
|| `VFT2_DRV_LANGUAGE` || Language driver. ||
|| `VFT2_DRV_DISPLAY` || Display driver. ||
|| `VFT2_DRV_MOUSE` || Mouse driver. ||
|| `VFT2_DRV_NETWORK` || Network driver. ||
|| `VFT2_DRV_SYSTEM` || System driver. ||
|| `VFT2_DRV_INSTALLABLE` || Installable driver. ||
|| `VFT2_DRV_SOUND` || Sound driver. ||
|| `VFT2_DRV_COMM` || Communications driver ||

=== Virtual Device Drivers ===

When _!FileType_ has value `VFT_VXD` (a virtual device driver) then _!FileSubType_ contains the virtual device identifier included in the virtual device control block.

=== Other Cases ===

In all other cases, and when there is no version information available, _!FileSubType_ contains no information and should be zero.

Constants for all the values discussed above are defined in the Windows unit.