#summary Description of the TPJVCLMsgDlg.ButtonGroup property
<wiki:comment>
$Rev$
$Date$
</wiki:comment>

= !ButtonGroup property =

*Project:* [MessageDialogComponents Message Dialog Components].

*Unit:* _PJMessageDialog_.

*Class:* _[TPJVCLMsgDlg TPJVCLMsgDlg]_

{{{
type
  TPJMsgDlgButtonGroup = (
    bgAbortRetryIgnore, bgOK, bgOKCancel, bgRetryCancel, bgYesNo, bgYesNoCancel,
    bgUnknown, bgCancelTryContinue
  );

property ButtonGroup: TPJMsgDlgButtonGroup;
}}}

== Description ==

The buttons which appear in the dialog box depend on the value of this property and on the associated _[TPJVCLMsgDlgButtons Buttons]_ property.

When the value of _!ButtonGroup_ is changed the _[TPJVCLMsgDlgButtons Buttons]_ property is updated the to the set of buttons contained in the button group. Setting _!ButtonGroup_ to `bgUnkown` sets _[TPJVCLMsgDlgButtons Buttons]_ to the empty set. Conversely, when the _[TPJVCLMsgDlgButtons Buttons]_ property is changed _!ButtonGroup_ is set to any matching group, or to `bgUnknown` if the set of buttons in the _[TPJVCLMsgDlgButtons Buttons]_ property is not a valid button group.

The possible values of _!ButtonGroup_ are as follows:

|| *Value* || *Buttons used* ||
|| `bgAbortRetryIgnore` || Abort, Retry and Ignore buttons. ||
|| `bgOK` || A single OK button. ||
|| `bgOKCancel` || An OK and a Cancel button. ||
|| `bgRetryCancel` || A Retry and a Cancel button. ||
|| `bgYesNo` || A Yes and a No button. ||
|| `bgYesNoCancel` || Yes, No and Cancel buttons. ||
|| `bgUnknown` || An unsupported or unknown group of buttons. This item should not be selected explicitly. If it is selected it has the same effect as `bgOK`. ||
|| `bgCancelTryContinue` || Synonym for `bgAbortRetryIgnore` with same effect. (Note that in _[TPJWinMsgDlg TPJWinMsgDlg]_ `bgCancelTryContinue` behaves differently to `bgAbortRetryIgnore`.) ||

To include a help button in the dialog box do one of two things:

  # Set the _[TPJVCLMsgDlgHelpContext HelpContext]_ property to some non-zero value and include `mdoAutoHelpBtn` in the _[TPJVCLMsgDlgOptions Options]_ property, or
  # Include the `mbHelp` button value in the _[TPJVCLMsgDlgButtons Buttons]_ property.

If a cancel button is included in the group whether it appears or not depends on whether the `mdoInhibitCancel` value is included in the _[TPJVCLMsgDlgOptions Options]_ property.

A value associated with the button that was clicked is returned from the _[TPJVCLMsgDlgExecute Execute]_ method.

The default value of the property is `bgOK`.