#summary Description of the TPJVCLMsgDlg.Kind property
<wiki:comment>
$Rev$
$Date$
</wiki:comment>

= Kind property =

*Project:* [MessageDialogComponents Message Dialog Components].

*Unit:* _PJMessageDialog_.

*Class:* _[TPJVCLMsgDlg TPJVCLMsgDlg]_

{{{
type
  TPJMsgDlgKind = (
    mkWarning, mkInformation, mkQuery, mkError, mkUser,
    mkApplication, mkWinLogo
  );

property Kind: TPJMsgDlgKind;
}}}

== Description ==

This property determines the appearance and other attributes of the dialog box. The property specifies the icon that will appear in the dialog box, the default window title and any sound played when the dialog box is displayed. The default window title can be overridden using the _[TPJVCLMsgDlgTitle Title]_ property and sounds are only played when _[TPJVCLMsgDlgMakeSound MakeSound]_ is `True`.

The effect of each of the possible values of the _Kind_ property are described below:

|| *Value* || *Icon* || *Default title* || *System Sound* ||
|| `mkWarning` || System exclamation icon || "Warning" || `MB_ICONEXCLAMATION` ||
|| `mkInformation` || System information icon || "Information" || `MB_ICONASTERISK` ||
|| `mkQuery` || System confirmation icon || "Confirm" || `MB_ICONQUESTION` ||
|| `mkError` || System error icon || "Error" || `MB_ICONHAND` ||
|| `mkUser` || Specified by _[TPJVCLMsgDlgIconResource IconResource]_ property || Per _Application.Title_ property || `MB_OK` ||
|| `mkApplication` || System application icon || Per _Application.Title_ property || `MB_OK` ||
|| `mkWinLogo` || System Windows icon || Per _Application.Title_ property || `MB_OK` ||

Setting _Kind_ also updates the _[TPJVCLMsgDlgDlgType DlgType]_ property and vice versa. See the _[TPJVCLMsgDlgDlgType DlgType page]_ for full details.

*Notes:*

  # When _Kind_ = `mkUser`, the icon is loaded from the resource specified by the _[TPJVCLMsgDlgIconResource IconResource]_ property only if the _[TPJVCLMsgDlgOptions Options]_ property contains `mdoShowCustomIcon`, otherwise no icon is displayed.
  # The appearance of system icons is operating system version dependent. On some Windows versions, the icon displayed for `mkApplication` and `mkWinLogo` is the same.
  # Sounds are also operation system version and theme dependent. Some themes play no sound for some `MB_XXX` values.

The default value of the property is `mkInformation`.
