#summary Description of the TPJVCLMsgDlg.Buttons property
<wiki:comment>
$Rev$
$Date$
</wiki:comment>

= Buttons property =

*Project:* [MessageDialogComponents Message Dialog Components].

*Unit:* _PJMessageDialog_.

*Class:* _[TPJVCLMsgDlg TPJVCLMsgDlg]_

{{{
type
  TMsgDlgButton = (
    mbYes, mbNo, mbOK, mbCancel, mbAbort, mbRetry, mbIgnore,
    mbAll, mbNoToAll, mbYesToAll, mbHelp, mbClose
  );

type TMsgDlgButtons = set of TMsgDlgBtn;

property Buttons: TMsgDlgButtons;
}}}

== Description ==

The _Buttons_ property records the set of buttons that are to appear in the dialog box. This property is more flexible that the related _[TPJVCLMsgDlgButtonGroup ButtonGroup]_ property - it supports additional buttons in any combination.

Setting the _Buttons_ property causes _[TPJVCLMsgDlgButtonGroup ButtonGroup]_ to be updated. If the combination of buttons required is not supported by the _[TPJVCLMsgDlgButtonGroup ButtonGroup]_ property, that property is set to `bgUnknown`. Conversely setting the _[TPJVCLMsgDlgButtonGroup ButtonGroup]_ property causes the _Buttons_ property to be updated to the set of buttons in the selected group.

Because of the link between _Buttons_ and _[TPJVCLMsgDlgButtonGroup ButtonGroup]_ and its linkage with _[TPJVCLMsgDlgDlgType DlgType]_, setting _Buttons_ can affect the value of _[TPJVCLMsgDlgDlgType DlgType]_ and vice versa.

The set of available buttons (_TMsgDlgButtons_) is defined in the _Dialogs_ unit and is as follows:

|| *Value* || *Button caption* || *!ModalResult* ||
|| `mbYes` || "Yes" || `mrYes` ||
|| `mbNo` || "No" || `mrNo` ||
|| `mbOK` || "OK" || `mrOK` ||
|| `mbCancel` || "Cancel" || `mrCancel` ||
|| `mbAbort` || "Abort" || `mrAbort` ||
|| `mbRetry` || "Retry" || `mrRetry` ||
|| `mbIgnore` || "Ignore" || `mrIgnore` ||
|| `mbAll` || "All" || `mrAll` ||
|| `mbNoToAll` || "No To All" || `mrNoToAll` ||
|| `mbYesToAll` || "Yes To All" || `mrYesToAll` ||
|| `mbHelp` || "Help" || N/a (doesn't close dialog) ||
|| `mbClose` || "Close" || `mrClose` ||

Note that if the _[TPJVCLMsgDlgOptions Options]_ property includes `mdoAutoHelpBtn` then the display of a help button depends only on the value of the _[TPJVCLMsgDlgHelpContext HelpContext]_ property - inclusion of `mbHelp` in the _Buttons_ property is ignored.

Similarly if `mdoInhibitCancel` is included in _[TPJVCLMsgDlgOptions Options]_ a cancel button will never be displayed, regardless of whether `mbCancel` is included in _Buttons_.

Which button in the _Buttons_ set is to be the default button is specified by the _[TPJVCLMsgDlgDefButton DefButton]_ property.

Note that if no buttons are specified for display, or if all the buttons specified in the _Buttons_ property are inhibited by _[TPJVCLMsgDlgOptions Options]_ settings, then the dialog will display an OK button. The Help button is ignored when determining the above since it does not close the dialog, i.e. if only the Help button would be displayed then an OK button is also included.

The default value of the property is `[mbOK]`.