#summary Description of the TPJWinMsgDlg.Kind property
<wiki:comment>
$Rev$
$Date$
</wiki:comment>

= Kind property =

*Project:* [MessageDialogComponents Message Dialog Components].

*Unit:* _PJMessageDialog_.

*Class:* _[TPJWinMsgDlg TPJWinMsgDlg]_

{{{
type
  TPJMsgDlgKind = (
    mkWarning, mkInformation, mkQuery, mkError, mkUser,
    mkApplication, mkWinLogo
  );

property Kind: TPJMsgDlgKind;
}}}

== Description ==

This property determines the appearance and other attributes of the dialog box. The property specifies the icon that will appear in the dialog box, the default window title and any sound played when the dialog box is displayed. The default window title can be overridden using the _[TPJWinMsgDlgTitle Title]_ property and sounds are only played when _[TPJWinMsgDlgMakeSound MakeSound]_ is `True`.

The effect of each of the possible values of the _Kind_ property are described below:

|| *Value* || *Icon* || *Default title* || *System Sound* ||
|| `mkWarning` || System exclamation icon || "Warning" || `MB_ICONEXCLAMATION` ||
|| `mkInformation` || System information icon || "Information" || `MB_ICONASTERISK` ||
|| `mkQuery` || System confirmation icon || "Confirm" || `MB_ICONQUESTION` ||
|| `mkError` || System error icon || "Error" || `MB_ICONHAND` ||
|| `mkUser` || Specified by _[TPJWinMsgDlgIconResource IconResource]_ property || Per _Application.Title_ property || `MB_OK` ||
|| `mkApplication` || System application icon || Per _Application.Title_ property || `MB_OK` ||
|| `mkWinLogo` || System Windows icon || Per _Application.Title_ property || `MB_OK` ||

*Notes:*

  # When _Kind_ = `mkUser`, the icon is loaded from the resource specified by the _[TPJWinMsgDlgIconResource IconResource]_ property.
  # The appearance of system icons is operating system version dependent. On some Windows versions, the icon displayed for `mkApplication` and `mkWinLogo` is the same.
  # Sounds are also operation system version and theme dependent. Some themes play no sound for some `MB_XXX` values.

The default value of the property is `mkInformation`.
